docs: updating tutorial for COMBINE25 (#421)
Reed-CompBio/spras: docs/tutorial/advanced.rst

###################################
Advanced Capabilities and Features
###################################

Parameter tuning
================
Parameter tuning is the process of determining which parameter combinations should be explored for each algorithm for a given dataset.
Parameter tuning focuses on defining and refining the parameter search space.

Each dataset has unique characteristics so there are no preset parameters combinations to use and instead must be tuned individually for an algorithm.
SPRAS provides a flexible framework for getting parameter grids for any algorithms for a given dataset.

Grid Search
------------

A grid search systematically tests different combinations of parameter values to see how each affects network reconstruction results.

In SPRAS, users can define parameter grids for each algorithm directly in the configuration file.
When executed, SPRAS automatically runs each algorithm across all parameter combinations and collects the resulting subnetworks.

> SPRAS will also supports parameter refinement using graph topological heuristics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SPRAS will also support parameter refinement using graph topological heuristics.
```

   :align: center

.. raw:: html

   <div style="margin:20px 0;"></div>

PCA-based parameter selection computes a precision and recall for a single reconstructed network selected using PCA from all reconstructed networks for an algorithm for given dataset.

.. image:: ../_static/images/pr-pca-chosen-pathway-per-algorithm-nodes.png
   :alt: description of the image
   :width: 400
   :align: center

.. raw:: html

   <div style="margin:20px 0;"></div>

.. note:: 
    Evaluation will only execute if ml include is also set to true, since the parameter selection step depends on the PCA ML analysis.

.. note:: 
    To see evaluation in action, run SPRAS using the config.yaml or egfr.yaml configuration files.

CHTC integration
=================

Running locally hard and slow when too many algo parameter datasets 
Need way to run long term
SPRAS runs jobs; CHTC can run these jobs in parallel when available

Ability to run with different container frameworks
---------------------------------------------------

CHTC requires apptainer/singularity
- SPRAS allows a user to change the type of images to use 

1. Global Workflow Control

Sets options that apply to the entire workflow.

> - Examples: the container framework (docker, singularity, dsub) and where to pull container images from

Reviewer 2: I believe the plan is to mention that these things exist. We aren't going to have time at COMBINE to show them. If we ever grow this for a longer format, we could add more detail here.

###################################
Advanced Capabilities and Features
###################################

Parameter tuning
================
Parameter tuning is the process of determining which parameter combinations should be explored for each algorithm for a given dataset.
Parameter tuning focuses on defining and refining the parameter search space.

Each dataset has unique characteristics so there are no preset parameters combinations to use and instead must be tuned individually for an algorithm.
SPRAS provides a flexible framework for getting parameter grids for any algorithms for a given dataset.

Grid Search
------------

A grid search systematically tests different combinations of parameter values to see how each affects network reconstruction results.

In SPRAS, users can define parameter grids for each algorithm directly in the configuration file.
When executed, SPRAS automatically runs each algorithm across all parameter combinations and collects the resulting subnetworks.

SPRAS will also supports parameter refinement using graph topological heuristics.

> These topological metrics help identify parameter regions that produce stable or biologically plausible outputs networks.

Author: plausibility yes, stability no.
```suggestion
These topological metrics help identify parameter regions that produce biologically plausible outputs networks.
```

Based on these heuristics, SPRAS will generate new configuration files with refined parameter grids for each algorithm per dataset.

Users can further refine these grids by rerunning the updated configuration and adjusting the parameter ranges around the newly identified regions to find and fine-tune the most promising algorithm specific outputs for a given dataset.

.. note::

    Some grid search features are still under development and will be added in future SPRAS releases.

Parameter selection
-------------------

Parameter selection refers to the process of determining which parameter combinations should be used for evalaution and how to identify the “best” set of parameters per algorithm for a given dataset.

Parameter selection is handled in the evaluation code, which supports multiple parameter selection strategies.

> Once the grid space search is complete for each dataset, the user can enable evaluation (by setting evaluation include to true) and it will run all of the parameter selection code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once all parameter combinations for an algorithm have been run for a dataset, the user can enable evaluation (by setting evaluation include to true) and SPRAS will run the parameter selection code.
```
For include true use the `` formatting.

   :alt: description of the image
   :width: 400
   :align: center

.. raw:: html

   <div style="margin:20px 0;"></div>

Ensemble-based parameter selection generates precision-recall curves by thresholding on the frequency of edges across an ensemble of reconstructed networks for an algorithm for given dataset.

.. image:: ../_static/images/pr-curve-ensemble-nodes-per-algorithm-nodes.png
   :alt: description of the image
   :width: 400
   :align: center

.. raw:: html

   <div style="margin:20px 0;"></div>

PCA-based parameter selection computes a precision and recall for a single reconstructed network selected using PCA from all reconstructed networks for an algorithm for given dataset.

.. image:: ../_static/images/pr-pca-chosen-pathway-per-algorithm-nodes.png
   :alt: description of the image
   :width: 400
   :align: center

.. raw:: html

   <div style="margin:20px 0;"></div>

.. note:: 
    Evaluation will only execute if ml include is also set to true, because the PCA parameter selection step depends on the PCA ML analysis.

.. note:: 
    To see evaluation in action, run SPRAS using the config.yaml or egfr.yaml configuration files.

> CHTC integration

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should call this CHTC. Maybe HTCondor or High-throughput computing. CHTC is specific to one institution.

=================

Running SPRAS locally can become slow and resource intensive, especially when running many algorithms, parameter combinations, or datasets simultaneously.

To address this, SPRAS supports integration with the Center for High-Throughput Computing (CHTC), allowing Snakemake jobs to be distributed in parallel and executed across available compute.

See :doc:`Running with HTCondor <../htcondor>` for more information on SPRAS's integrations with HTConder.

Ability to run with different container frameworks
---------------------------------------------------

CHTC uses Apptainer to run containerized software in secure, high-performance environments.

SPRAS accommodates this by allowing users to specify which container framework to use globally within their workflow configuration.

The global workflow control section in the configuration file allows a user to set which SPRAS supported container framework to use:

.. code-block:: yaml

    container_framework: docker

> - the frameworks include Docker, Apptainer/Singularity, or dsub

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The frameworks include Docker, Apptainer/Singularity, or dsub
```
